Title: Individual clown anemonefish shrink to survive heat stress and social conflict
Authors: "Melissa Versteeg, Chancey MacDonald, Morgan Bennett-Smith, Peter Buston, Theresa Rueger"

[Access this dataset on Github](https://github.com/melissa-versteeg/Anemonefish-shrinking)

The dataset contain the data files underlying clown anemonefish shrinking (PercentChange_Versteeg_etal_ 2025 data file),
shrinking in response to size ratios (R1andR2Shrinking_Versteeg_etal_ 2025 data file), as well as the overall survival of individual anemonefish in response to environmental and social factors Survival_Versteeg_etal_ 2025 data file).

The dataset from which temperatures were projected is also included (ARIMA_Versteeg_etal_ 2025 data file)

We have also included the code for the Bayesian models of thermal stress, social factors, growth patterns, size ratios and suvival probabilities. The code includes their respective model fit checks and plots. 

Data was collected over five lunar months, spanning February - August 2023
(study period: 180 days), in Kimbe Bay, Papua New Guinea (5°30’S, 150°05’E).


Description of the data and file structure:
Each dataset is available as a separate excel workbook and csv file. Data observations are presented in tab 1 ("Data") and variable descriptions and measurement units are found in tab 2 ("Variables").

- Shrinking of clown anemonefish ("PercentChange_Versteeg_etal_ 2025.xlsx")

Variables include:
FishID - Individual fish identifier
GroupID - Unique identifier of individual host anemone habitat
Rank - Social status of individual within a breeding pair
LC_Adj - Lunar month
Init_TL - Initial total length of the individual (the TL at the start of a lunar month)
Diff_TL - Absolute difference in total length from one lunar month to the next
Perc_change_TL - Percent change in total length of an individual from one lunar month to the next
Growth_ThreeGroups - Ordered categorisation of growth patterns of individuals over the entire study period
Dev_Temp_LC - Range in temperature over a lunar month
M_Temp_LC - Mean in temperature over a lunar month
Max_Temp_LC - Maximum in temperature over a lunar month
Dev_Temp_LC_INIT - Range in temperature over the preceding lunar month
M_Temp_LC_INIT - Mean in temperature over the preceding lunar month
Max_Temp_LC_INIT - Maximum in temperature over the preceding lunar month
Shrink - Binary variable to indicate whether a shrinking event occurred

- Shrinking in response to size ratios rank 2: rank 1 ("R1andR2Shrinking_Versteeg_etal_ 2025.xlsx")

Variables include:
FishID - Individual fish identifier
GroupID - Unique identifier of individual host anemone habitat
Rank - Social status of individual within a breeding pair
LC_Adj - Lunar month
TL - Total length of the individual (the TL at the end of a lunar month)
Init_TL - Initial total length of the individual (the TL at the start of a lunar month)
Diff_TL - Absolute difference in total length from one lunar month to the next
Perc_change_TL - Percent change in total length of an individual from one lunar month to the next
R2_Shrink - Binary variable to indicate shrinking of rank 2 at the end of a lunar month
R1_Shrink - Binary variable to indicate shrinking of rank 1 at the end of a lunar month
Shrinking - Binary variable to indicate shrinking of an individual at the end of a lunar month
Size_R2R1_Initial - Size ratio of the rank 2 to rank 1 at the start of a lunar month

- Survival of clown anemonefish ("Survival_Versteeg_etal_ 2025.xlsx")

Variables include:
GroupID -	Unique identifier of individual host anemone habitat
Rank -	Social status of individual within a breeding pair
LC_Adj -	Lunar month
Init_TL -	Initial total length of the individual (the TL at the start of a lunar month)
Br_Pair_Shr -	Binary variable of whether shrinking occurred for both members within their breeding pair
Growth_ThreeGroups -	Ordered categorisation of growth patterns of individuals over the entire study period
MinOverall_FishID -Thermal accumulation/ baseline overall temperatures at the level of the host anemone habitat
LC_Died	- Lunar month within with mortality was recorded
Date_Died	- Survey date at which mortality was confirmed
TimeTo_Event -	Number of days until event occurred or study period ended
Event_Died	- Binary variable indicating whether mortality occurred

- Temperature forecasting and hindcasting ("ARIMA_Versteeg_etal_ 2025.xlsx")

Variables include:
GroupID -	Unique identifier of individual host anemone habitat
LC_Adj -	Lunar month
Dev_Temp_LC -	Range in temperature over a lunar month
M_Temp_LC -	Mean in temperature over a lunar month
Max_Temp_LC -	Maximum in temperature over a lunar month
Dev_Temp_LC_INIT -	Range in temperature over the preceding lunar month
M_Temp_LC_INIT -	Mean in temperature over the preceding lunar month
Max_Temp_LC_INIT -	Maximum in temperature over the preceding lunar month


-R code for all included analyses ("Anemonefish shrinking_code.R")
Anemonefish shrinking_code has the following sections, with annotation, data manipulation, model code and effect extractions and comparisons. 

Layout includes:
Section 1: Libraries - With session and package information.
Section 2: Data sets, transformations, subsetting, and data projections.
Section 3: Model results, plots, model fit, and effect extractions.
Result 1a: Clown anemonefish shrinking is common during a heat stress event.
Result 1b: Clown anemonefish growth and shrinking is related to size and social rank.      
Result 2: Clown anemonefish growth and shrinking are linked.
Result 3: Clown anemonefish growth is predicted by heat stress.
Result 4: Clown anemonefish shrinking is also predicted by social conflict.
Result 5: Clown anemonefish that shrink more often have higher chances of survival.
Section 4: Figures.
Figure panel 1: Change in total length (TL) of clown anemonefish during a heat stress event.
Fig. 1A: The distribution of percent body length changes of individual rank 1 and rank 2 clown anemonefish.
Fig. 1B: The percent change in total length modelled in relation to initial total length of fish for rank 1.
Fig. 1C: The percent change in total length modelled in relation to initial total length of fish for rank 2.     
Figure 2: Percent change in total length (TL) for clown anemonefish with different shrinking response patterns.
Figure panel 3: Change in body length of clown anemonefish in relation to heat stress.
Fig. 3A: The percentage change in total length fitted against temperature exposure in the lunar month of length measurements for rank 1 and rank 2.
Fig. 3B: The distribution of the corresponding slope estimates for each rank, for current heat stress model.
Fig. 3C: The distribution of the corresponding slope contrasts between ranks for current heat stress model.
Fig. 3D: The percentage change in total length was fitted against temperature exposure in the preceding lunar month.
Fig. 3E: The distribution of the corresponding slope estimates for each rank, for preceding heat stress model.
Fig. 3F: The distribution of the corresponding slope contrasts between ranks for preceding heat stress model.  
Figure panel 4: Shrinking likelihood in relation to size ratio of both clown anemonefish within a breeding pair. 
Fig. 4A: The likelihood of shrinking was fitted against size ratios of rank 2 to rank 1 at the start of the lunar month.
Fig. 4B: The distribution of model estimates for shrinking probability among rank 1 and rank 2 individuals, at three discrete size ratios 0.6, 0.8, and 1.0.
Fig. 4C: The corresponding contrasts in shrinking probabilities between the two ranks.
Figure panel 5: Survival of clown anemonefish. 
Fig. 5A: Kaplan-Meier survival curves for heat stress at the anemone scale. 
Fig. 5B: Kaplan-Meier survival curves for growth patterns based on shrinking frequency. 
Fig. 5C: Kaplan-Meier survival curves for social factors of shrinking within a breeding pair.
